good evening I'm Adrian Arsena and I'm
Andrew Chang tonight an eighty two
billion dollar lifeline for Canadians
affected by the corona virus no matter
where you live what you do or who you
are you will get the support you need
help for people out of work and
businesses that are struggling but it
can't come soon enough when you stop
working you stop making money this is a
decision to restrict entry the canada-us
border closes - no one essential traffic
to try to stop the spread our hospitals
prepared for a spike in critically ill
patients the estimate we've run out of
and later within 16 to 35 days the
creative ways doctors are trying to
stretch what they've got isolated but
not a lot you can see that these are
right keeping families together through
the crisis this
[Music]
two major moves by the federal
government today as it tries to deal
with the spread of the corona virus in
this country one of them billions in aid
for businesses and workers grappling
with the economic consequences the other
a carefully plotted aggressive step by
both Canada and the United States so
they have agreed to close the border to
non-essential travel that doesn't
include trade or Canadians trying to
come home that word as Canada recorded
more than a hundred and twenty five new
cases and a ninth death an elderly man
in Quebec so lots of developments to
fill you in on let's start with a
massive new spending by the federal
government to help get Canadians through
the financial part of this crisis David
Cochrane begins our coverage in Ottawa
in these extraordinary times our
government is taking extraordinary
measures the border may be closed but
the vault is open the measures we're
announcing today will provide up to 27
billion dollars in direct support to
Canadian workers and businesses plus 55
billion to meet liquidity needs of
Canadian businesses and households
eighty two billion dollars to build a
financial lifeboat especially for people
who don't get employment insurance it
includes the emergency care benefit up
to nine hundred dollars every two weeks
for up to 15 weeks for people who self
isolate or get sick or have to look
after a family member who is sick
elderly or a child the emergency support
benefit another new program to give the
equivalent of AI to the self-employed or
people who lose their jobs and can't get
AI my only job is to make sure that
Canadians can keep food in the fridge
that they can keep a roof over their
heads that they can afford the medicine
that they need the finance minister is
boosting the GST rebate for low-income
earners waiving student loan payments
for six months promising a boost to the
Canada Child Benefit we're working
quickly to get money into people's hands
so that no matter what happens during
this period they can afford the
essentials that includes businesses big
and small there's a 10% wage subsidy for
small businesses for three months to
keep people working all businesses can
defer tax payments until September to
keep 55 billion dollars in the economy
and there's the promise of help to come
for the industries that need it most
we're going to actively work with
organizations in the oil and gas sector
in the airline sector in order to come
up with approaches that enable them to
bridge through a challenging time what
isn't clear is how long this challenging
time will last all of these measures run
for at least three months but the
government expects this crisis to last
longer than that
David Cochrane CBC News Ottawa so that's
what's on offer an enormous cash
infusion for employers and workers but
timing is everything and what we hear
over and over again the need is now
here's Aaron Saltzman in the fight to
keep Canadians above water financially
small businesses like Allyson Griffin's
now shuttered hair salon are the
frontline and when you stop working you
stop making money but she's still on the
hook for rent hydro water phone Internet
then there's her staff all freelancers
and contractors we have people who have
children who don't have childcare for
the next four weeks and you have to
decide am I going to pay my rent or am I
getting a grocery shop for six weeks and
make sure that my kids have food they'll
be covered by new measures announced
today but there are other problems
consider regular employment insurance in
order to get it you have to be
officially laid off but many people have
only lost shifts when they are
eventually laid off unless they're sick
or in isolation they'll still have to
wait another week before they can even
apply for AI what that means is now
we're looking at three maybe four weeks
for people without any type of pay and
it's barely more than half normal income
that's gonna make for a lot of very
desperate families it's not so much that
they're falling through the cracks it's
just that this is unfolding very rapidly
people are gonna go without pay very
rapidly as well some things announced
today require parliamentary approval the
boost to the GST credit and the
candidate child tax benefit might not
hit families until the middle of May as
for the small business measures at 10%
wage subsidy will help the owner of this
Toronto takeaway keep employees on the
payroll it helps in certain situations
like people who can remain open it will
help you so it's it's not a terrible
thing but for restaurants that are
closed it's not gonna bring the
employees back his business is down 40
to 50 percent here and his other
location which he had just opened is now
closed entirely so while today's help is
welcome here and here it's really just a
good start
Aaron Saltzman CBC News Toronto five big
automakers are halting production across
North America and that hits hard in
Ontario as many as 40,000 workers are
affected according to their union in
places like Oakville Brampton Windsor
and Ingersoll it's not just that sales
have suddenly collapsed
union leaders in the US had asked for
some closures due to health concerns
facilities were up will undergo deep
cleaning during this shutdown well to
the new restrictions now being put on
who can cross the canada-us border while
Canadians will still be allowed to
return home
non-essential visits for things like
tourism will end and as Catherine Cullen
explains for that shared border it was a
shared decision in both our countries
we're encouraging people to stay home we
don't want people coming into contact
because that's the way we're gonna win
this with a war where the border is a
front line to try to stop the spread of
CO vide 19 by stopping so many of the
400,000 people who cross the canada-us
border each day but officials won't say
that they're closing the border this is
a decision to restrict entry essential
Travel will continue that means no going
over the border to sightsee or shop was
still being allowed today we went
through picked up the vehicle came back
and on the Canadian side we're really
right through
for others the question of what
constitutes essential travel is more
complicated like in st. Stephen New
Brunswick which sits right on the border
with Maine there's people that go back
and forth for work there's people that
have family members over there the
specifics are being ironed out but one
thing is clear it is essential for
Canada and the United States to continue
to maintain the very important trade
between our two countries
there there was not even an atom a
molecule of push back on that trade is
key here
it won't affect trade at all and it was
just something we thought would be good
for both countries Canada already shut
out much of the rest of the world Monday
but waited on only the United States
despite the fact the country is
struggling to manage or even track its
Cove in nineteen out break Canadian
officials had to weigh the risks of the
virus spreading over the border against
Canada's dependence on the US the food
that goes on our shelves the
pharmaceuticals that we will require are
all part of that international trade
between our two countries officials are
still sorting out when the border
restrictions would start with talk of
reassessing after 30 days though
Canada's top health official today said
that the virus could be around for
months and that Canada should prepare
for a second wave Katherine :
CBC News Ottawa so big moves by the
federal government clearly today to deal
with the fallout from this virus let's
bring in Rosie our chief political
correspondent so Rosie can we focus
first on that eighty two billion dollars
yeah I mean really just to give you a
sense of the magnitude and the speed of
this response Adrian think back to a
week ago when the government was still
preparing to table a budget in about a
week's time today and announced that aid
package direct spending of twenty seven
billion dollars plus the fifty five
billion in tax deferrals so some
perspective on those numbers last year's
budget had twenty two billion dollars in
new money over five years so that should
give you a sense of how deep and how
long the economic impact of this might
be felt here's another hint the Canada's
chief public health officer said today
that this virus is going to be with us
for some time and we need to be prepared
for another wave
given we don't know the seasonality of
the virus so this is really the
government's first response a
significant one to what they are really
showing and telling us will last months
beyond this initial hit to the economy
and even through a second wave of the
virus potentially and that partial
border closure Rosie how difficult do
you think it was to reach that
particular decision well listen we know
that the Prime Minister and the
president have a complicated
relationship on the best of days but
from what we understand what I've been
told is that they were able to put aside
some of those past dynamics to make sure
that they could work out a solution to
the border fairly quickly
Canada approached the United States to
make sure they could get this done
together and from what I'm told it took
about 22 hours to get this agreement
between the countries that this was the
right decision
details of course still being worked out
but it was surprisingly uncomplicated
both sides understood the necessity of
keeping the goods and services flowing
and I am told that this deal this
Agreement this new new reality at the
border will be in place within days all
right Rosie thanks very much okay two
other provinces have followed Ontario
Alberta and BC in declaring states of
emergency Saskatchewan and Newfoundland
and Labrador made their announcements
today and here's what it looks like in
the most affected parts of the country
tonight while Canada has now reported
more than 720 cases the big spike was in
British Columbia today 45 new infections
for a total of 231 that's more than
Ontario now which has 214 24 of them new
today
Alberta also reported 22 new cases
bringing the total there to at least 119
now we've heard many times about the
growing need for testing that's from the
World Health Organization right on down
to national and local authorities so how
is Canada doing on that front
Tina love Green takes a little closer
look
day three and eleven more to go Lisa and
Anton's mess art ourself isolating after
returning from holidays they haven't
been tested because they don't feel sick
but they don't want to be part of the
problem either what we do today is going
to help us in the next 10 days 14 days
two weeks or three weeks the number of
cases are multiplying across this nation
our scientists project that the viral
infection in Alberta will peak about
four or five weeks from now and more and
more new cases aren't travel related
this is a signal there is some degree of
community spreads so our time to act is
now
but in Ontario a lagging test results is
making that heart and causing concern
the four-day wait is not acceptable and
so we are working on it doing much
better than that we're working to set up
25 dedicated assessment centers across
the province to ease the pressure on
hospitals Quebec also under pressure has
started drive-through testing the goal
to test a hundred people a day seven
days a week and the federal government
is expanding testing capacities with two
newly approved koban 19 diagnostic tests
to help provinces keep up if we can't
have testing available as needed then it
greatly interferes with the ability to
contain this here in BC testing is
reserved for those who need it most
health care workers patients close to
hospitalization or unknown outbreak
clusters our testing has become more
strategic we are doing more and more of
it and more and more of it is necessary
and until that happens with more
community transmission appearing testing
becomes all the more crucial tina love
Greene CBC News Vancouver dr. Susie Jota
is an infectious disease specialist at
the University Health Network joining us
from outside the studio we are social
distancing of course and so dr. Hoda
what is the endgame here in in ramping
up testing is it that we can offer tests
to
anyone and everyone who wants it no
actually that's not really the goal here
so really on in an outbreak
you want to try know about as many cases
as possible so you can tell it follow up
on the contacts and contain things as
much as possible
but when you start to get community
spread at higher numbers your goal
shifts and what you're trying to do is
identify people who can actually expose
the most vulnerable folks in our
population who can get really sick from
this and prevent them from spreading it
so your goal is shifted a little bit
from wanting to look for every case to
looking for the ones that really matter
the most
it took help control the whole situation
right I suppose you can only prevent
spread if you know who's actually sick
so what's the actual point then at which
we can say ok all of this social
distancing we can ease up a little bit
yeah it's it's a really good question
because what you want to do is make sure
that you're on the down slope of the
curve of infection transmission before
you stop the measures like social
distancing if you stop it too early you
risk having another upswing another sort
of wave of infection and so you really
want to make sure you're at the point
where there's been enough intervention
in place that your transmission doesn't
happen very efficiently the virus from
person to person and then you're able to
let up ok
dr. Jota thanks for joining us thank you
so much happening across the country as
provinces and cities scramble to respond
Anita bath is tracking those stories for
us today
Adrien more seniors homes are being hit
by the Cova 19 outbreak an 80 year old
woman in Hamilton Ontario has been
diagnosed and now a resident at 1/3
seniors facility in British Columbia
there is fear Harold Park long-term care
could become the new epicenter in BC
more than 200 people live at the
residents we know elderly people are
particularly vulnerable to the virus six
of BC's seven deaths have occurred at a
single care home in north vancouver
outbreak control measures are now in
place at this new location hero Park
including restricting visitors you know
my mind quite a lot is in concern about
the people who live here and I
okay I want to take you across the
country now to Pei we're all
provincially owned liquor and cannabis
stores will be closed as of 2:00 p.m.
local time tomorrow the reaction well it
was disappointing for the provinces
Medical Health Officer scenes like this
despite her repeated warnings you can
see people are lined up long lines at
the cannabis and liquor stores as
everyone tried to stock up today we have
talked about social distancing we have
talked about the importance of staying
at home unless it's essential and that
appears to have been ignored and you
know we underestimated that alcohol is
considered essential for some people
meanwhile Ontario's medical information
line telehealth facing major issues
today if the province says it is adding
300 new lines hoping it will help with
the number of calls telehealth is
receiving anyone who can't get through
is being asked to call their local
public health units instead all right
now back to Toronto thanks Anita now
health guidance aside Canadians are also
deeply concerned about the supply of
vital health equipment especially
ventilators they want to know there are
enough of them should the situation get
worse and if hundreds of cases turn into
thousands doctor governor Selassie looks
into it I was asked to set up giving us
a look at his rural Ontario Hospital is
dr. Alain Gautier he and his colleagues
are preparing for a worst case scenario
an overload of serious Kovac 19 cases
and not enough ventilators to go around
I'd like to show you how to modify one
ventilator to that leg - with the help
of this video Gautier and his team
retooled each ventilator to help save
multiple lives options the option could
be it's a last resort that hasn't been
widely tested meanwhile across the
country measures to control the spread
continue
if we cannot keep the type of
interventions in place we're gonna run
out of capacity really really quickly
she's part of a team of researchers
tracking available resources she says in
total Ontario has 2,000 ICU beds and
1300 ventilators and canceling elective
surgeries can help free up many of them
even with that we estimate that we've
run out of ventilators within 16 to 35
days so that depends on how many new
cases do we see on Ontario how effective
our school closures and social
distancing is although most people with
kovat 19 will experience mild symptoms
in Italy about 10 percent ended up in
the ICU forcing doctors to choose who
gets a ventilator and who doesn't
today government officials reassured the
public they're getting ahead of this we
are actually pre-empting any need for
ventilators by purchasing some already
Ontario's health ministry would not
confirm the total number of ventilators
today but did say 300 more have been
ordered and auto part makers are ready
to help out too by retooling factories
to make more mock decubitus elasticity
see news toronto american health
officials are also worried about not
having enough ventilators among other
equipment and supplies they are sounding
the alarm that their system is simply
not prepared kovat 19 has spread to all
50 states and the District of Columbia
as of this evening more than 7,700
people have become sick more than 100
have died after Washington State New
York is the next hardest hit the
governor says cases there jumped by a
thousand since yesterday
Katie Simpson tells us what's being done
there equipped with badly needed beds
and operating rooms the us comfort is
being ready to set sail for New York
Harbor one of two military ships called
into action this will be it's an
extraordinary step obviously New York's
governor says his state can't handle an
influx
patience today to ease the strain on the
medical system the president invoked a
rarely used law that allows the
government to order companies to produce
emergency medical supplies we have
tremendous numbers of ventilators but
there's never been an instance like this
where no matter what you have it's not
enough a lack of equipment and personal
protective gear is a major concern for
frontline workers including these nurses
in Minnesota the tension in the
hospitals and the fear is heavy in the
event that a patient were to be positive
for Kovan 19 were not protected many
Americans are doing what they can to
protect themselves by following social
distancing rules but that is not the
case in some beach communities I wanted
to come down with my daughter and enjoy
the beach before the first wave right
the first wave of sickness a sudden
surge in startling information may
change attitudes now that the testing
backlog is finally easing we will see
the number of people diagnosed
dramatically increase over the next four
to five days Donald Trump has been
criticized for the slow rollout of tests
he's recently taken on a sense of
urgency but faces new accusations of
racism for calling kovat 19 the Chinese
virus it's not racist at all no not at
all it comes from China
that's why comes from China but would it
be accurate to the president fighting
the virus is a wartime effort and if
everyone has a role to play Public
Health says staying home is the most
important part
Katie Simpson CBC News Washington well
in the UK today Prime Minister Boris
Johnson said London could soon see
similar lockdown measures to those
already in place in other European
cities we will not hesitate to go
further and faster in the days and weeks
ahead and we will do whatever it takes
so that we beat it together
the government will be shutting down all
schools across the country starting this
Friday all this as the number of kovat
19 cases in the UK surpassed 2,600
and in Italy where sixty million people
are now in their second week of a
nationwide lockdown the number of cases
and deaths still on the rise just today
the country reported four hundred and
seventy five deaths its biggest increase
since the start of the outbreak Italy
still the hardest hit country by this
coronavirus outside of China
besides the border closures and travel
restrictions Canadians are facing
sky-high ticket prices to fly home from
abroad it just really seems unfair and
quite predatory to be to be honest up
next we look at passenger rights and
whether there could be released in the
future and Canadians still on the job
making deliveries working retail I don't
want to be here if I'm completely honest
but do they have to be and a creative
solution for family visits at a nursing
home on lockdown you can see him you can
talk to him you can see that these are
right we're back in two
welcome back Canadian airlines are
preparing to reduce service and in some
cases ground all flights it's a response
to calls by governments to reduce
international travel Porter Airlines
will suspend operations at the end of
day Friday until at least June the first
Sunwing airlines will stop flying on
Monday it's now focused on getting
passengers home
likewise Air Transat is gradually
suspending all service until April 30th
and Air Canada says it is phasing out
most international flights by April 1st
and domestic service is being reduced
WestJet previously said all cross-border
flights will stop by Sunday so all this
means Canadians abroad really have very
little time and few options to get back
home and with seats going for a premium
some are accusing Airlines of cashing in
as Erica Johnson explains that has
prompted calls for Ottawa to do more but
they have increased air fares in this
time of need
Carol Reed has just filed this complaint
with the airline regulator upset about
what Air Canada is charging her parents
to get home they're visiting family in
Chile and just had to spend more than
two thousand dollars to move up their
tickets in a time of a national crisis
in a worldwide pandemic it just really
seems unfair and quite predatory to be
to be honest we've heard from lots of
Canadians with beefs about Air Canada
WestJet Sunwing air transit desperate
travelers who say they're being gouged
to get home I paid over three times the
cost of the original flight rates one
traveler there are flights available at
nearly 50% higher price says another the
air fares are incredibly high over
$3,000 one-way passengers may not think
it's moral for airlines to charge more
at a time of crisis but it's legal an
air passenger rights advocate says
Ottawa should demand that airlines give
full refunds for anyone unable to use
their tickets due to the pandemic that
frees up seats
drives down prices the situation here
alters a nature of the contract
completely you cannot travel there is no
way you can travel there's no way you
can even travel in the foreseeable
future the federal government wouldn't
address questions about mandating
refunds saying again that it's offering
an emergency loan of up to $5,000 to
insure Canadians can return home safely
for travellers shelling out hundreds
even thousands of dollars unexpectedly
this consumer advocate is optimistic
they'll be reimbursed bigger things
happening and I think if we're patient
calm eventually the the money and the
the return plates will sort out
Air Canada didn't address the Canadian
couple who had to spend more than two
thousand dollars to change their ticket
but did announce special one-way fares
to help Canadians get home Erica Johnson
CBC News Vancouver well up next from the
hand soap you use to the medication you
take we put your coronavirus questions
to the experts first though we want to
show you how a nursing home in Nova
Scotia is working around restrictions
family members can't visit inside so
they got creative and set up a couple of
chairs outside a window here's the view
from both sides I feel at times very
stressful but my daughter and I we have
talked about it and she keeps telling me
that I'm in the safest place possible
you feel comforted because it's safe and
you know that you're not going to have
the anxiety of bringing something into
the residence I appreciate being able to
look at her through the window and talk
to her around the phone and that gives
me a great comfort it's better not being
able to see him I'm worried about him so
you can see him you can talk to him the
only thing that really bothers
yes I can't touch her and hug her I'm a
Heidi person and my life to eat huh
I think it's a wonderful idea so I'm
quite quite thrilled to be able to do
this as long as it takes
[Music]
welcome back with the kovat 19 outbreak
accelerating as quickly as it is so to
have the number of questions that you
have so every night going forward we are
setting time aside on the program to
answer those questions
joining me now dr. Susie Hoda and dr.
Isaac BOE gosh both infectious disease
specialists at the University Health
Network and both joining us from outside
the studio as we continue to practice
good social distance they hello to the
two of you dr. Bowe gosh let's get
started with question one this is one
that we've actually gotten a fair bit
does the kind of soap I use to wash my
hands matter the short answer to that is
no any soap should do and if soap isn't
available
hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol
should suffice any soap should do and
doesn't matter if it's a bar soap or
soap out of a bottle like a plunger it
really doesn't matter it really doesn't
matter soap is soap is soap it'll work
its effective and again I think the key
thing here is hand hygiene so if it
isn't available but someone has hand
sanitizer
that's fantastic as long as there's at
least 60% alcohol in the hand sanitizer
all right good point question number 2 -
dr. Jota does practicing social
distancing effectively mean
self-isolation staying at home it's not
exactly the same thing I mean both of
those things are trying to aim at the
same cheating the same thing which is
trying to prevent people from being in
close contact so that you know you don't
have transmission of the virus but
social distancing is really just trying
to keep your distance from people but
you're able to leave the home and do
certain things where self isolation
means you stay within the home you
really limit the number of people within
your household that are even going to be
in contact with you in the same room and
and you're careful about things like
sharing items in the house okay dr. boo
gosh third question a bit along similar
lines
is it safe to travel within Canada to
spend time with say family you know in
general I think that really kind of goes
against the principles of what we're
really trying to achieve here and of
course I appreciate that some people
have to travel there might be a sick
relative or something that's really
urgent that someone has to go to but in
general it's really time to stay home
it's really time for social distancing
measures to be implemented
widely and and traveling even within
Canada kind of goes against that and so
if you travel interprovincial II when
you come back should you self isolate in
the same way that you're supposed to
when you come back out of from out of
the country no not yet those those
measures have not been taken just yet I
don't know if we'll get there but
certainly that's not the case right now
okay dr. Jota this is one I've seen a
lot online do anti-inflammatories really
make you more susceptible to the virus
so we're talking things like Advil
ibuprofen I don't think we really know
an answer to that at this point in time
we're not giving advice for people to
avoid taking those medications although
there are some questions about you know
whether or not that might affect your
outcome might I wait for some more data
to come out yeah dr. Bowe gosh I mean
that is something we've seen circulating
online though I mean where did that come
from
I think there was a French official that
had raised this point and then it kind
of took off from there but we really
don't have any data to support this one
way or another okay last question I want
to go to you how much worse is this
going to get sadly we know it's gonna
get worse and certainly day-by-day we're
gonna see more and more cases however
however it is truly up to us to see how
we can mitigate this and if we really
all roll up our collective sleeves
practice social distancing which means a
lot of things like working from home and
and really staying apart from one
another we can really ensure that this
doesn't get too bad and doctor Hoda I'd
like you to take on that same question
how much worse do you think this is
going to get I I completely agree I
think we're gonna see more people get
sick from kovat 19 I think we were
expecting that we're trying to prepare
to deal with that by using these
interventions like social distancing to
try and help the system cope with it dr.
Hoda dr. Bowe gosh good to have you on
thanks thank you now as we mentioned we
will be asking your questions about
Kovan 19 every night going forward so
send us the questions that you have you
can message us directly on Instagram at
CBC the national or hey you can send us
an email at the national at cbc.ca
when it comes to fighting kovin 19 it is
clearly all hands
Dec a head tonight will take you to a
distillery that's stepping up to make
free hand sanitizer during the crisis
first though a little story about love
and the time of coronavirus Esther is
Canadian James is American they were
supposed to get married next month but
with today's border closing they just
decided to act fast
I was already mourning the fact that
when the wedding takes place in April as
we thought we would not be able to cross
the border I could see it's gonna close
and I thought we gonna miss it and I am
so thankful and everyone could make it
so just like we all are these days some
family teleconferenced in the happy
couple of course is waiting to plan a
honeymoon destination Congrats
the message is coming loud and clear
from government and health officials
right now people need to stay home to
try to slow the spread of this
coronavirus but not everyone can do that
in situations like these we rely even
more on frontline workers including
those at hospitals and clinics
I think perdn takes us to Humber River
Hospital in Toronto a place designed
with lessons learned from the SARS
outbreak to see how medical staff are
managing I'm here at the Humber River
Hospital in Toronto to find out how
frontline medical workers are coping
with kovat 19 genelva and halt train is
an emergency nurse we know we are the
frontline staff and we have to be you
know on our toes to accept whatever
comes our way so just trying to stay
prepared what's the biggest challenge
right now I think the challenge is not
knowing what to expect with flow of
patients and how many are going to come
in and how to prepare our department for
the possibility of more sick people a
lot of people are scared many of them
come in not sure they don't really know
why they're here they just know there's
a virus and they want to get checked out
here at this hospital there's been at
least one positive case of kovat 19:00
and like any one that kind of news has
Janell concerned about her own family my
mom has cancer so she does have you know
she's immunocompromised so that's always
a risk for me to come home to bring it
to her I mean she's a nurse as well and
my sisters are all nurses so we're very
used to these these things and she
worked through the SARS pandemic as well
so it's something our families you know
have a little bit more history with but
I am at risk to get it right from
working so
okay I think that's all I wanted to tell
you the person in charge of Janelle's
safety is Natalie far safe she's the
senior director of health and safety and
infection control some of the nurses are
scared right so and it's okay to be
aware you what do you worry about about
your staff I am worried about my stuff
taking the strain that our community
puts over on their shoulders without
pitching it what Natalie is talking
about are the Canadians who have ignored
the social distancing recommendations
when you see people out as a healthcare
professional what do you think it makes
me very angry because while we're doing
the right thing within the walls of the
hospital we can not control what happens
outside pandemics or community events
and we need every single person in the
community to pitch in people who carry
the virus and may have mild symptoms
have a weapon that can wipe out
potentially entire generation of people
over 65 was significantly affected by
the virus so people carry a weapon
people are the weapon
makes you wonder how much stress Janelle
is actually under did you ever consider
throwing up your hands and saying I'll
come back when the pandemics over you
may be never expected that you would go
through a pandemic as a nurse even
though you know that possibility is
always there and you're putting yourself
at risk but that's why I picked nursing
I joined nursing to help
it's a helping profession I want to be
there and people are out there their
finest moments may be having a baby but
also at their worst moments when they're
facing death or a disease such as this
and same with the rest of my team in
emergency you know we love helping
people and we're there for you and we're
able to keep a calm face during
something like this and that's just what
we love to do as the pandemic worsens
we're lucky to have people like Janelle
on the front lines
Nick burden CBC News Toronto and it's
not just health care professionals and
first responders barring a broader risk
of infection there's a whole army of
other workers out there keeping things
running cashiers couriers retail workers
Chris Glover looks at how they're
holding up
and sanitize it that they've sent us and
giving us a few bottles of which you can
see we're almost out of there only three
bottles of hand sanitizer from head
office so a co-worker provided the wipes
this eb games employee is afraid to lose
his job so we aren't revealing his name
they're saying that they want to look
after us and keep us safe keep the
customer safes but at this point I feel
like this that's not their main concern
or my concern is to keep these stores
open and making money working with no
protective gear he raised concerns on a
corporate call yesterday but says he was
told suck it up I don't want to be here
if I'm completely honest coming in
because of my staff basically you know
to be the leader in the store and show
them that you know everything's going to
be okay but I personally don't feel okay
eb games won't return our calls but even
at this Loblaws supermarket we saw
frontline workers without protective
gear in a statement the company said we
continue to follow the guidance from
Public Health the employer is not doing
that stay home legally the employer had
better pay you and will have to pay you
if that occurs even if you choose to
stay home this employment lawyer says
you can't be fired or the employer can
be sued people do not realize the
protection they have and employers don't
realize the liability that they have
signatures but for some going without a
paycheck isn't an option this courier
says right now customers aren't allowed
to touch his machine SS and then I just
put any name right there and close it up
on to the next week at EB Games
promotions are ramping up and a major
release is set for Friday I don't want
to put my family or anybody in my close
circle at risk that way and right now I
feel like I am this worker fears the
potential danger will only increase
Chris Glover CBC News Toronto up next an
Ontario business switching years to help
protect Canadians during this crisis
we're making as much sanitizer and
disinfectant as we can
distillery doing its part and wait until
you hear about the response they've been
well hand sanitizer is clearly a hot
commodity these days health officials
say products containing at least 60%
alcohol can kill the coronavirus but you
may be hard pressed to find any store
shelves across Canada have been picked
clean and there are reports of price
gouging online so enter Dillon's small
batch distillers they have gone from
making spirits to hand sanitizer and
disinfectant and they're giving them
away for free to those who are most in
need a cbc news crews stop by there
today for a peek behind the scenes
I'm Jeff Dylan I'm the founder here at
Dillon small batch distillers down in
benzyl Ontario normally we'd be making
gin but today we're bottling up over
3,000 bottles of hand sanitizer to go
out to essential services normally we
are a gin and whiskey distillery we're
making lots of different gins some fun
dry whiskey's things took a turn on
Friday so we started making a small
little little 30 mil bottles of hand
sanitizer we found some aloe and we said
well we could add some alcohol to that
and make it a nice little hand sanitizer
give it away to people that come in and
in the word spread demand just kept
growing they bought the disinfectant
already but we are just working on so by
Monday night Whitney who runs the
frontier is she texted saying you know I
think there's probably more we can do
and we sat down said very well what can
we do we came up with a nice strong 65
percent alcohol it's using our heads and
tails so it's not not potable but it's
65% alcohol enough to kill the bacteria
and viruses and bottled that up and get
it out to the people that need it
I think I have about a thousand emails
that have come in over the last less
than 24 hours the phone is ringing off
the hook
so there's definitely people in need of
it we're hearing from ICU nurses and ER
doctors that don't have access to hand
sanitizer right now and there's you know
some pretty heart-wrenching stories out
there of people that are just trying to
keep their families safe and healthy I
deliver medications for people that need
them on a daily basis to get through the
day and the week in the munson I'm here
getting hand sanitizers to keep us clean
because we got to make sure that we're
clean to help with the other people that
they're healthy - my wife is in health
care she's a primary care pharmacist and
I thought it would be great that she had
supplies on hand when she needed it so
it goes both ways right it goes both
ways we've got people in health care who
are helping the community and those in
the community who want to support them
so that's why I'm here everyone's kind
of scared although all the news is
negative and you know your stories of
people hoarding toilet paper and
sanitizer and if we can do the exact
opposite do something positive and I
think that's a big win for for us and
anyone we can help that's pretty cool
okay up next on the national a global
birthday celebration in the midst of
this coronavirus secede kicks in and
happy birthday Nixon trending all over
the world was was unbelievable our
moment is next
this little guy here Nixon turned seven
years old yesterday but because of Kovac
19 he couldn't have a regular birthday
party it can be hard for kids to
understand why everything around them is
suddenly getting canceled or closed down
and Nixon's dad to his credit still
wants to do something special to
celebrate so he turned to Twitter and
what came back is our moment
yesterday was my seven-year-old son
Nixon's birthday he was super upset that
his birthday party got canceled I
thought how cool would be to cheer him
up a little bit by putting out this
message and having people write happy
birthday to him and over 11,000 messages
from all the Ghostbusters happy birthday
I'm Jake Tapper here from CNN and with
here with another friend hey Nixon is
Wolf Blitzer
from CNN the Situation Room happy happy
birthday next thing I looked and it was
the number one trending thing in Calgary
then it started trending in Canada then
it started trending a worldwide and like
it's so heartwarming especially in you
know a time right now where there's so
much uncertainty and a lot of people are
panicking and scared to see Nixon and
happy birthday Nixon trending all over
the world was was unbelievable Jesse
took it even further because he turned
reading the tweets into Nixon right yeah
and I bet he would have enjoyed every
single one too because so fun funny
thing yesterday was my younger
daughter's birthday as well she just
turned three and you know I posted about
it on Instagram because it was kind of a
quiet birthday party as one would expect
so many friends and family sent us happy
birthday videos and well wishes and she
watched those videos over and over and
over again it was something special
perfect Chloe hope you had a good
birthday go to bed that is a national
March 18th
[Music]